_pages/program/keynotes.md, before:

---
title: Invited Speakers and Panels
layout: single
permalink: /program/keynotes-panels/
sidebar:
    nav: program
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_h_max: 2
---

The following speakers have graciously accepted to give invited talks at NAACL 2022.

## Batya Friedman
{: #batya-friedman}

![Batya Friedman](/assets/images/keynotes/Batya_Friedman.jpg){: .align-center}

[**Batya Friedman**](https://vsdesign.org/) is a Professor in the Information School and holds adjunct appointments in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, the School of Law, and the Department of Human Centered Design and Engineering at the University of Washington where she co-founded the Value Sensitive Design Lab and the UW Tech Policy Lab. Dr. Friedman pioneered value sensitive design (VSD), an established approach to account for human values in the design of technical systems. Her work in value sensitive design has resulted in robust theoretical constructs, dozens of innovative methods, and practical toolkits such as the Envisioning Cards. Value sensitive design has been widely adopted nationally and internationally where it has been used in architecture, biomedical health informatics, civil engineering, computer security, energy, global health, human-computer interaction, human-robotic interaction, information management, legal theory, moral philosophy, tech policy, transportation, and urban planning, among others. Additionally, value sensitive design is emerging in higher education, government, and industry as a key approach to address computing ethics and responsible innovation. Today, Dr. Friedman is working on open questions in value sensitive design including multi-lifespan design, and designing for and with non-human stakeholders – questions critical for the wellbeing of human societies and the planet. 
 
Dr. Friedman’s 2019 MIT Press book co-authored with David Hendry, Value Sensitive Design: Shaping Technology with Moral Imagination, provides a comprehensive account of value sensitive design. In 2012 Dr. Friedman received the ACM-SIGCHI Social Impact Award and the University Faculty Lecturer award at the University of Washington, in 2019 she was inducted into the CHI Academy, in 2020 she received an honorary doctorate from Delft University of Technology, and in 2021 she was recognized as an ACM Fellow. She is also a stone sculptor and mixed media artist. Dr. Friedman received both her B.A. and Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley.

## Manuel Montes-y-Gómez
{: #manuel-montes-y-gomez}

![Manuel Montes-y-Gómez](/assets/images/keynotes/Manuel_Montes_y_Gomez.jpg){: .align-center}

**Manuel Montes-y-Gómez** is Full Professor at the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics (INAOE) of Mexico. His research is on automatic text processing. He is author of more than 250 journal and conference papers in the fields of information retrieval, text mining and authorship analysis.

He has been visiting professor at the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain), and the University of Alabama (USA). He is also member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences (AMC), and founding member of the Mexican Academy of Computer Science (AMEXCOMP), the Mexican Association of Natural Language Processing (AMNLP), and of the Language Technology Network of CONACYT. In the context of them, he has been the organizer of the National Workshop on Language Technologies (from 2004 to 2016), the Mexican Workshop on Plagiarism Detection and Authorship Analysis (2016-2020), the Mexican Autumn School on Language Technologies (2015 and 2016), and a shared task on author profiling, aggressiveness analysis and fake news detection in Mexican Spanish at IberLEF (2018-2021).

**Talk title:** NLP in Mexican Spanish: One of many stories

## Panel: The Place of Linguistics and Symbolic Structures
{: #panel-linguistics-symbolic-structures}

**Moderator:** Dan Roth

The widespread adoption of neural models in NLP research and the fact that NLP applications increasingly mediate people’s lives have prompted many discussions about what productive research directions might look like for our community. Since NAACL is a meeting of a chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, we would like to highlight specifically the role that linguistics and symbolic structures can play (or not) in shaping these research directions.

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Emily M. Bender, University of Washington)

[comment]: <> (![Emily M. Bender]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Emily_Bender.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

[comment]: <> (...)

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Dilek Hakkani-Tur)

[comment]: <> (![Dilek Hakkani-Tur]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Dilek_Hakkani-Tur.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

[comment]: <> (...)

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Chitta Baral)

[comment]: <> (![Chitta Baral]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Chitta_Baral.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

### Panelist: Christopher D. Manning, Stanford University

![Christopher D. Manning](/assets/images/keynotes/Chris_Manning.jpg){: .align-center}

Christopher Manning is a professor of linguistics and computer science at Stanford University, Director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab (SAIL), and an Associate Director of the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered AI (HAI). He is a leader in applying deep neural networks to natural language processing (NLP), including work on neural machine translation, tree-recursive models, natural language inference, summarization, parsing, question answering, and the GloVe word vectors. Manning founded the Stanford NLP group (@stanfordnlp), teaches and has co-written textbooks for NLP (CS 224N) and information retrieval (CS 276), co-developed Stanford Dependencies and Universal Dependencies, manages development of the Stanford CoreNLP and Stanza software, is the most-cited researcher in NLP, and is an ACM, AAAI, and ACL Fellow and a Past President of ACL.

## Panel: Careers in NLP Panel
{: #panel-careers-in-nlp}

The Careers in NLP Panel is a standing feature of NAACL Industry Track. The panel is addressed to graduate students and junior researchers as well as their supervisors and mentors, although all NAACL participants are welcomed. The panellists will discuss the diversity of career paths in NLP: from more research-oriented NLP scientist roles to careers in product. 

### Moderator: Yunyao Li, Apple Knowledge Platform

![Yunyao Li](/assets/images/keynotes/Yunyao_Li.jpg){: .align-center}

Yunyao Li is the Head of Machine Learning, Apple Knowledge Platform, where her team builds the next-generation machine learning solutions to help power features such as Siri and Spotlight. Previously she was a Distinguished Research Staff Member and Senior Research Manager at IBM Research - Almaden. She is particularly known for her work in scalable NLP, enterprise search, and database usability. She has built systems, developed solutions, and delivered core technologies to over 20 IBM products under brands such as Watson, InfoSphere, and Cognos. She has published over 80 articles with multiple awards and a book. She was an IBM Master Inventor, with over 50 patents filed/granted. She is an ACM Distinguished Member. She was a member of the inaugural New Voices program of the US National Academies (1 out of 18 selected nationwide) and represented US young scientists at World Laureates Forum Young Scientists Forum in 2019 (1 of 4 selected nationwide).

### Panelist: Yang Liu, Amazon, Alexa AI

![Yang Liu](/assets/images/keynotes/Yang_Liu.jpg){: .align-center}

Yang Liu is currently a principal scientist at Amazon, Alexa AI. Her research interest is in speech and language processing. She received her BS and MS from Tsinghua University, and Ph.D. from Purdue University. Before joining Amazon, she was the head of LAIX Silicon Valley AI lab, a research scientist at Facebook, visiting scientist at Google, a faculty member at the University of Texas at Dallas, and researcher at ICSI in Berkeley. She received NSF CAREER award and Air Force Young Investigator Program award. She is currently a member of the IEEE SLTC committee, a senior area editor for IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, an action editor for TACL. She was one of the program chairs for EMNLP 2020, and has served regularly as an area chair and reviewer in the past NLP conferences. She is a fellow of IEEE and ISCA.

### Panelist: Timo Mertens, Grammarly

![Timo Mertens](/assets/images/keynotes/Timo_Mertens.jpg){: .align-center}

Timo Mertens is the Head of Machine Learning & NLP Products at Grammarly. In his role, he oversees the teams that design and build products that use machine learning and natural language processing. These technologies empower Grammarly to offer a digital writing assistant that helps millions of users write more clearly and effectively every day. Timo has focused on the intersection between machine learning and delivering impactful products throughout his career, spanning academia—with a Ph.D. in Speech Recognition—and industry, where he’s held product leadership positions across Microsoft, Google, and Dropbox.

### Panelist: Thamar Solorio, University of Houston and Bloomberg LP

![Thamar Solorio](/assets/images/keynotes/Thamar_Solorio.jpg){: .align-center}

Thamar Solorio is a  Professor of Computer Science at the University of Houston (UH) and she is also a visiting scientist at Bloomberg LP. She holds graduate degrees in Computer Science from the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica, in Puebla, Mexico. Her research interests include information extraction from social media data, enabling technology for code-switched data, stylistic modelling of text, and more recently multimodal approaches for online content understanding. She is the director and founder of the Research in Text Understanding and Language Analysis Lab at UH. She is the recipient of an NSF CAREER award for her work on authorship attribution, and recipient of the 2014 Emerging Leader ABIE Award in Honor of Denice Denton. She is currently serving a second term as an elected board member of the North American Chapter of the Association of Computational Linguistics.

### Panelist: Luke Zettlemoyer, University of Washington and Meta

![Luke Zettlemoyer](/assets/images/keynotes/Luke_Zettlemoyer.jpg){: .align-center}

Luke Zettlemoyer is a Professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington, and a Research Scientist at Meta. His research focuses on empirical methods for natural language semantics, and involves designing machine learning algorithms, introducing new tasks and datasets, and, most recently, studying how to best develop self-supervision signals for pre-training. His honors include being named an ACL Fellow as well as winning a PECASE award, an Allen Distinguished Investigator award, and multiple best paper awards.

Commit message:

Update Manuel's bio and abstract

_pages/program/keynotes.md, after:

---
title: Invited Speakers and Panels
layout: single
permalink: /program/keynotes-panels/
sidebar:
    nav: program
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_h_max: 2
---

The following speakers have graciously accepted to give invited talks at NAACL 2022.

## Batya Friedman
{: #batya-friedman}

![Batya Friedman](/assets/images/keynotes/Batya_Friedman.jpg){: .align-center}

[**Batya Friedman**](https://vsdesign.org/) is a Professor in the Information School and holds adjunct appointments in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, the School of Law, and the Department of Human Centered Design and Engineering at the University of Washington where she co-founded the Value Sensitive Design Lab and the UW Tech Policy Lab. Dr. Friedman pioneered value sensitive design (VSD), an established approach to account for human values in the design of technical systems. Her work in value sensitive design has resulted in robust theoretical constructs, dozens of innovative methods, and practical toolkits such as the Envisioning Cards. Value sensitive design has been widely adopted nationally and internationally where it has been used in architecture, biomedical health informatics, civil engineering, computer security, energy, global health, human-computer interaction, human-robotic interaction, information management, legal theory, moral philosophy, tech policy, transportation, and urban planning, among others. Additionally, value sensitive design is emerging in higher education, government, and industry as a key approach to address computing ethics and responsible innovation. Today, Dr. Friedman is working on open questions in value sensitive design including multi-lifespan design, and designing for and with non-human stakeholders – questions critical for the wellbeing of human societies and the planet. 
 
Dr. Friedman’s 2019 MIT Press book co-authored with David Hendry, Value Sensitive Design: Shaping Technology with Moral Imagination, provides a comprehensive account of value sensitive design. In 2012 Dr. Friedman received the ACM-SIGCHI Social Impact Award and the University Faculty Lecturer award at the University of Washington, in 2019 she was inducted into the CHI Academy, in 2020 she received an honorary doctorate from Delft University of Technology, and in 2021 she was recognized as an ACM Fellow. She is also a stone sculptor and mixed media artist. Dr. Friedman received both her B.A. and Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley.

## Manuel Montes-y-Gómez
{: #manuel-montes-y-gomez}

![Manuel Montes-y-Gómez](/assets/images/keynotes/Manuel_Montes_y_Gomez.jpg){: .align-center}

**Manuel Montes-y-Gómez** is Full Professor at the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics (INAOE) of Mexico. His research is on automatic text processing. He is author of more than 250 journal and conference papers in the fields of information retrieval, text mining and authorship analysis.

He has been visiting professor at the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain), and the University of Alabama (USA). He is also a member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences (AMC), and founding member of the Mexican Academy of Computer Science (AMEXCOMP), the Mexican Association of Natural Language Processing (AMNLP), and of the Language Technology Network of CONACYT. In the context of them, he has been the organizer of the National Workshop on Language Technologies (from 2004 to 2016), the Mexican Workshop on Plagiarism Detection and Authorship Analysis (2016-2020), the Mexican Autumn School on Language Technologies (2015 and 2016), and a shared task on author profiling, aggressiveness analysis and fake news detection in Mexican Spanish at IberLEF (2018-2021).

**Talk title:** NLP in Mexican Spanish: One of many stories

**Abstract:**

Spanish is one of the most widely spoken languages in the world, however, the
development of language technologies for it has not been in the same
proportion. This is particularly true for some of its Latin American variants, such
as the Mexican Spanish. This talk will focus on presenting the development of
NLP for Mexican Spanish, emphasizing one of its many research stories related
to the analysis of social media content.

This talk will present some data on the languages spoken in Mexico and on the
development of the area of Natural Language Processing in our country, and
will describe a research project that combined the efforts of several groups: the
identification of abusive language in Mexican tweets. The talk will conclude by
exposing some calls for collaboration, with the intention of increasing and
improving the research in Mexican Spanish as well as in the many indigenous
languages spoken in Mexico.


## Panel: The Place of Linguistics and Symbolic Structures
{: #panel-linguistics-symbolic-structures}

**Moderator:** Dan Roth

The widespread adoption of neural models in NLP research and the fact that NLP applications increasingly mediate people’s lives have prompted many discussions about what productive research directions might look like for our community. Since NAACL is a meeting of a chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, we would like to highlight specifically the role that linguistics and symbolic structures can play (or not) in shaping these research directions.

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Emily M. Bender, University of Washington)

[comment]: <> (![Emily M. Bender]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Emily_Bender.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

[comment]: <> (...)

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Dilek Hakkani-Tur)

[comment]: <> (![Dilek Hakkani-Tur]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Dilek_Hakkani-Tur.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

[comment]: <> (...)

[comment]: <> (### Panelist: Chitta Baral)

[comment]: <> (![Chitta Baral]&#40;/assets/images/keynotes/Chitta_Baral.jpg&#41;{: .align-center})

### Panelist: Christopher D. Manning, Stanford University

![Christopher D. Manning](/assets/images/keynotes/Chris_Manning.jpg){: .align-center}

Christopher Manning is a professor of linguistics and computer science at Stanford University, Director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab (SAIL), and an Associate Director of the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered AI (HAI). He is a leader in applying deep neural networks to natural language processing (NLP), including work on neural machine translation, tree-recursive models, natural language inference, summarization, parsing, question answering, and the GloVe word vectors. Manning founded the Stanford NLP group (@stanfordnlp), teaches and has co-written textbooks for NLP (CS 224N) and information retrieval (CS 276), co-developed Stanford Dependencies and Universal Dependencies, manages development of the Stanford CoreNLP and Stanza software, is the most-cited researcher in NLP, and is an ACM, AAAI, and ACL Fellow and a Past President of ACL.

## Panel: Careers in NLP Panel
{: #panel-careers-in-nlp}

The Careers in NLP Panel is a standing feature of NAACL Industry Track. The panel is addressed to graduate students and junior researchers as well as their supervisors and mentors, although all NAACL participants are welcomed. The panellists will discuss the diversity of career paths in NLP: from more research-oriented NLP scientist roles to careers in product. 

### Moderator: Yunyao Li, Apple Knowledge Platform

![Yunyao Li](/assets/images/keynotes/Yunyao_Li.jpg){: .align-center}

Yunyao Li is the Head of Machine Learning, Apple Knowledge Platform, where her team builds the next-generation machine learning solutions to help power features such as Siri and Spotlight. Previously she was a Distinguished Research Staff Member and Senior Research Manager at IBM Research - Almaden. She is particularly known for her work in scalable NLP, enterprise search, and database usability. She has built systems, developed solutions, and delivered core technologies to over 20 IBM products under brands such as Watson, InfoSphere, and Cognos. She has published over 80 articles with multiple awards and a book. She was an IBM Master Inventor, with over 50 patents filed/granted. She is an ACM Distinguished Member. She was a member of the inaugural New Voices program of the US National Academies (1 out of 18 selected nationwide) and represented US young scientists at World Laureates Forum Young Scientists Forum in 2019 (1 of 4 selected nationwide).

### Panelist: Yang Liu, Amazon, Alexa AI

![Yang Liu](/assets/images/keynotes/Yang_Liu.jpg){: .align-center}

Yang Liu is currently a principal scientist at Amazon, Alexa AI. Her research interest is in speech and language processing. She received her BS and MS from Tsinghua University, and Ph.D. from Purdue University. Before joining Amazon, she was the head of LAIX Silicon Valley AI lab, a research scientist at Facebook, visiting scientist at Google, a faculty member at the University of Texas at Dallas, and researcher at ICSI in Berkeley. She received NSF CAREER award and Air Force Young Investigator Program award. She is currently a member of the IEEE SLTC committee, a senior area editor for IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, an action editor for TACL. She was one of the program chairs for EMNLP 2020, and has served regularly as an area chair and reviewer in the past NLP conferences. She is a fellow of IEEE and ISCA.

### Panelist: Timo Mertens, Grammarly

![Timo Mertens](/assets/images/keynotes/Timo_Mertens.jpg){: .align-center}

Timo Mertens is the Head of Machine Learning & NLP Products at Grammarly. In his role, he oversees the teams that design and build products that use machine learning and natural language processing. These technologies empower Grammarly to offer a digital writing assistant that helps millions of users write more clearly and effectively every day. Timo has focused on the intersection between machine learning and delivering impactful products throughout his career, spanning academia—with a Ph.D. in Speech Recognition—and industry, where he’s held product leadership positions across Microsoft, Google, and Dropbox.

### Panelist: Thamar Solorio, University of Houston and Bloomberg LP

![Thamar Solorio](/assets/images/keynotes/Thamar_Solorio.jpg){: .align-center}

Thamar Solorio is a  Professor of Computer Science at the University of Houston (UH) and she is also a visiting scientist at Bloomberg LP. She holds graduate degrees in Computer Science from the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica, in Puebla, Mexico. Her research interests include information extraction from social media data, enabling technology for code-switched data, stylistic modelling of text, and more recently multimodal approaches for online content understanding. She is the director and founder of the Research in Text Understanding and Language Analysis Lab at UH. She is the recipient of an NSF CAREER award for her work on authorship attribution, and recipient of the 2014 Emerging Leader ABIE Award in Honor of Denice Denton. She is currently serving a second term as an elected board member of the North American Chapter of the Association of Computational Linguistics.

### Panelist: Luke Zettlemoyer, University of Washington and Meta

![Luke Zettlemoyer](/assets/images/keynotes/Luke_Zettlemoyer.jpg){: .align-center}

Luke Zettlemoyer is a Professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington, and a Research Scientist at Meta. His research focuses on empirical methods for natural language semantics, and involves designing machine learning algorithms, introducing new tasks and datasets, and, most recently, studying how to best develop self-supervision signals for pre-training. His honors include being named an ACL Fellow as well as winning a PECASE award, an Allen Distinguished Investigator award, and multiple best paper awards.
