_pages/covid-19-safety.md, before:

---
title: COVID-19 Safety at NAACL 2022
layout: single
permalink: /covid-19-safety/
---

It is the policy of ACL conferences that attendees wear high-quality, well-fitting masks while attending indoor functions at ACL events, removing their masks only the minimal amount necessary to eat and drink. 
This policy is in force even if local regulations are less strict, but may be superseded by stricter local regulations.  

Furthermore, the ACL strongly encourages attendees to be cautious with masking in indoor space outside the conference venue (e.g. on public transit or while eating away from the venue) to avoid bringing COVID to the venue. 
This policy will be revisited annually by the ACL exec so as to be responsive to changing pandemic conditions.

[comment]: <> (**Measures in place at the venue**)

## Staying safe while attending NAACL 2022 in person

This is essential information for anyone who will be present at our conference.

**Before you leave**

We strongly encourage all participants to test before travelling to the conference and you should not travel if your test is positive.

Please ensure that you have checked with your airline to understand their policies regarding COVID-19 and have adequate travel insurance in place.

Please ensure you have taken the time to read all of the latest [advice about travel to the United States](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/noncitizens-US-air-travel.html). 

**At the conference**

Realizing the COVID pandemic is of concern to everyone, here is the latest update about Seattle: 
As of March 1, 2022, there is no longer a vaccine verification health order. 
And as of March 12, 2022, Washington and King County will discontinue current mask mandates. 
Seattle was the first major American city to fully vaccinate 70% of residents 12 and older. 
King County is now at a vaccination rate of 88% and is safely welcoming back visitors. 
Many large corporations and businesses are beginning to bring their workforce back to downtown, 
which will continue to enhance the visitor's experience.

However, to ensure everyone’s safety, and with the purpose of making everyone comfortable at the conference, 
please carefully consider the following if you are attending in person:

* It is the policy of ACL conferences that attendees wear high-quality, well-fitting masks while attending indoor functions at ACL events, removing their masks only the minimal amount necessary to eat and drink.

[comment]: <> (We strongly encourage you to bring your own mask while at NAACL, but a small number of masks will also be available at the venue.)

* The ACL strongly encourages attendees to be cautious with masking in indoor space outside the conference venue (e.g., on public transit or while eating away from the venue) to avoid bringing COVID to the venue.

* As a precaution we have minimized the number of plenary events, and we will have only one plenary event each day.

* If you start to feel ill or test positive during the conference, please leave the venue immediately, and do not come to the venue anymore.

* We will also have a point of contact (TBD) that people can report positive cases to and consult with.

[comment]: <> (* Regular handwashing is strongly encouraged and there are also hand sanitising stations around the venue.)

* To avoid crowded situations, we recommend making optimal use of the available spaces, particularly during coffee breaks.

* Speakers and session chairs are not required to wear masks while presenting, as there is enough distance between speakers and audience.

[comment]: <> (A small number of masks and lateral flow device tests are available at the registration desk, but please be prepared and bring your own to Seattle.)

 
We come from different countries and different personal experiences about COVID-19, 
and for many of us NAACL 2022 is the first hybrid conference after the peaks of the pandemic. 
In order to favor interpersonal relations, we will use a "traffic light system" with stickers to attach to your badge to indicate your feelings on social distancing:

* Red: keep a distance 
* Amber: being cautious, no touching 
* Green: handshakes and hugs ok

**Plan ahead to return home**

Please ensure you know the COVID-19 testing requirements for return travel back into your country of origin. 
The requirements are available on your Government website.

[comment]: <> (If you need a PCR test to travel home, you can book one here: TBD)

Commit message:

Added contact for COVID page

_pages/covid-19-safety.md, after:

---
title: COVID-19 Safety at NAACL 2022
layout: single
permalink: /covid-19-safety/
---

It is the policy of ACL conferences that attendees wear high-quality, well-fitting masks while attending indoor functions at ACL events, removing their masks only the minimal amount necessary to eat and drink. 
This policy is in force even if local regulations are less strict, but may be superseded by stricter local regulations.  

Furthermore, the ACL strongly encourages attendees to be cautious with masking in indoor space outside the conference venue (e.g. on public transit or while eating away from the venue) to avoid bringing COVID to the venue. 
This policy will be revisited annually by the ACL exec so as to be responsive to changing pandemic conditions.

For questions or concerns, or to report illness, please either find **Yonatan Bisk** at the venue or contact the DEI committee at <naacl-2022-dei-chairs@googlegroups.com>

[comment]: <> (**Measures in place at the venue**)

## Staying safe while attending NAACL 2022 in person

This is essential information for anyone who will be present at our conference.

**Before you leave**

We strongly encourage all participants to test before travelling to the conference and you should not travel if your test is positive.

Please ensure that you have checked with your airline to understand their policies regarding COVID-19 and have adequate travel insurance in place.

Please ensure you have taken the time to read all of the latest [advice about travel to the United States](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/noncitizens-US-air-travel.html). 

**At the conference**

Realizing the COVID pandemic is of concern to everyone, here is the latest update about Seattle: 
As of March 1, 2022, there is no longer a vaccine verification health order. 
And as of March 12, 2022, Washington and King County will discontinue current mask mandates. 
Seattle was the first major American city to fully vaccinate 70% of residents 12 and older. 
King County is now at a vaccination rate of 88% and is safely welcoming back visitors. 
Many large corporations and businesses are beginning to bring their workforce back to downtown, 
which will continue to enhance the visitor's experience.

However, to ensure everyone’s safety, and with the purpose of making everyone comfortable at the conference, 
please carefully consider the following if you are attending in person:

* It is the policy of ACL conferences that attendees wear high-quality, well-fitting masks while attending indoor functions at ACL events, removing their masks only the minimal amount necessary to eat and drink.

[comment]: <> (We strongly encourage you to bring your own mask while at NAACL, but a small number of masks will also be available at the venue.)

* The ACL strongly encourages attendees to be cautious with masking in indoor space outside the conference venue (e.g., on public transit or while eating away from the venue) to avoid bringing COVID to the venue.

* As a precaution we have minimized the number of plenary events, and we will have only one plenary event each day.

* If you start to feel ill or test positive during the conference, please leave the venue immediately, and do not come to the venue anymore.

* We will also have a point of contact (TBD) that people can report positive cases to and consult with.

[comment]: <> (* Regular handwashing is strongly encouraged and there are also hand sanitising stations around the venue.)

* To avoid crowded situations, we recommend making optimal use of the available spaces, particularly during coffee breaks.

* Speakers and session chairs are not required to wear masks while presenting, as there is enough distance between speakers and audience.

[comment]: <> (A small number of masks and lateral flow device tests are available at the registration desk, but please be prepared and bring your own to Seattle.)

 
We come from different countries and different personal experiences about COVID-19, 
and for many of us NAACL 2022 is the first hybrid conference after the peaks of the pandemic. 
In order to favor interpersonal relations, we will use a "traffic light system" with stickers to attach to your badge to indicate your feelings on social distancing:

* Red: keep a distance 
* Amber: being cautious, no touching 
* Green: handshakes and hugs ok

**Plan ahead to return home**

Please ensure you know the COVID-19 testing requirements for return travel back into your country of origin. 
The requirements are available on your Government website.

[comment]: <> (If you need a PCR test to travel home, you can book one here: TBD)
