_pages/home.md, before:

---
title: "2022 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics"
layout: splash
permalink: /
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/splash/seattle-resized.jpg"
  caption: 'Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/QEob0Fp4rdg">Zhifei Zhou</a> on <a href="http://www.unsplash.com">Unsplash</a>'
excerpt: "Seattle, Washington"
secondary_excerpt: "July 10--15, 2022"
---

<style>
.news-table { font-size: .9em; table-layout: fixed; }
.news-table tr td:nth-child(1) { font-weight: bold; width: 10em; }
</style>

## News

| Dec 9, 2021 | Added the [Call for Student Research Workshop Papers](/calls/srw/).
| Dec 7, 2021 | [Blogpost](/blog/submissions/) by the program chairs on submitting papers to NAACL. 
| Dec 7, 2021 | Added the [Call for System Demonstrations](/calls/demos/).
| Oct 19, 2021 | Added the [Call for Industry Track Papers](/calls/industry/).
| Oct 15, 2021 | Added the [Call for Main Conference Papers](/calls/papers/).
| Oct 6, 2021 | [Blogpost](/blog/diversity-intro/) by D&I chairs on upcoming D&I initiatives. Please fill out the [D&I survey](https://forms.office.com/r/XUxP8XSN5N).
{: .news-table}
<!-- Note: When this table is too full, move some to the archive page. -->

[Older News](/archive/){: .btn .btn--info}
{: .text-center}

## Important Dates

<style>
.dates-table { font-size: .9em; }
.dates-table tr td:nth-child(1) { width: 58%; }
.dates-table del { color: #888; }
</style>

See details regarding the ACL Rolling Review (ARR) process in the [Call for Main Conference Papers](/calls/papers/) and [Call for Industry Track Papers](/calls/industry/).

| Anonymity period begins | | [1 month before submission](https://aclrollingreview.org/cfp#anonymity-period) |
| Latest submission to ARR (main conference + industry) | Saturday | January 15, 2022 |
| Submission deadline for system demonstrations | Friday | February 11, 2022 |
| Commitment deadline for NAACL 2022 | Wednesday | March 2, 2022 |
| Notification of acceptance | Thursday | April 7, 2022 |
| Withdrawal deadline | Monday | April 11, 2022 |
| Camera-ready version due | Tuesday | May 3, 2022 |
| Conference date | Sunday--Friday | July 10--15, 2022 |
{: .dates-table}

<b>All deadlines are 11.59 pm <a target="_blank" href="https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zone/timezone/utc-12">UTC -12h</a> (anywhere on earth).</b>

## Welcome!

The 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics - Human Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT 2022) will be held in Seattle, Washington from July 10 through July 15, 2022.

Commit message:

Added blog post on responsible NLP research checklistt

_pages/home.md, after:

---
title: "2022 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics"
layout: splash
permalink: /
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/splash/seattle-resized.jpg"
  caption: 'Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/QEob0Fp4rdg">Zhifei Zhou</a> on <a href="http://www.unsplash.com">Unsplash</a>'
excerpt: "Seattle, Washington"
secondary_excerpt: "July 10--15, 2022"
---

<style>
.news-table { font-size: .9em; table-layout: fixed; }
.news-table tr td:nth-child(1) { font-weight: bold; width: 10em; }
</style>

## News

| Dec 9, 2021 | [Blogpost](/blog/responsible-nlp-research-checklist/) by the program chairs on the Responsible NLP Research checklist.
| Dec 9, 2021 | Added the [Call for Student Research Workshop Papers](/calls/srw/).
| Dec 7, 2021 | [Blogpost](/blog/submissions/) by the program chairs on submitting papers to NAACL. 
| Dec 7, 2021 | Added the [Call for System Demonstrations](/calls/demos/).
| Oct 19, 2021 | Added the [Call for Industry Track Papers](/calls/industry/).
| Oct 15, 2021 | Added the [Call for Main Conference Papers](/calls/papers/).
| Oct 6, 2021 | [Blogpost](/blog/diversity-intro/) by D&I chairs on upcoming D&I initiatives. Please fill out the [D&I survey](https://forms.office.com/r/XUxP8XSN5N).
{: .news-table}
<!-- Note: When this table is too full, move some to the archive page. -->

[Older News](/archive/){: .btn .btn--info}
{: .text-center}

## Important Dates

<style>
.dates-table { font-size: .9em; }
.dates-table tr td:nth-child(1) { width: 58%; }
.dates-table del { color: #888; }
</style>

See details regarding the ACL Rolling Review (ARR) process in the [Call for Main Conference Papers](/calls/papers/) and [Call for Industry Track Papers](/calls/industry/).

| Anonymity period begins | | [1 month before submission](https://aclrollingreview.org/cfp#anonymity-period) |
| Latest submission to ARR (main conference + industry) | Saturday | January 15, 2022 |
| Submission deadline for system demonstrations | Friday | February 11, 2022 |
| Commitment deadline for NAACL 2022 | Wednesday | March 2, 2022 |
| Notification of acceptance | Thursday | April 7, 2022 |
| Withdrawal deadline | Monday | April 11, 2022 |
| Camera-ready version due | Tuesday | May 3, 2022 |
| Conference date | Sunday--Friday | July 10--15, 2022 |
{: .dates-table}

<b>All deadlines are 11.59 pm <a target="_blank" href="https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zone/timezone/utc-12">UTC -12h</a> (anywhere on earth).</b>

## Welcome!

The 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics - Human Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT 2022) will be held in Seattle, Washington from July 10 through July 15, 2022.
