_pages/venue.md, before:

---
title: Venue
layout: single
permalink: /venue/
sidebar:
    nav: "participants"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

NAACL 2022 will be a **hybrid** event with both on-site (Seattle, Washington) and virtual participation (via Underline).

## About Seattle

Seattle welcomes millions of visitors from around the world so many of you may already be familiar
with all that Seattle has to offer. Sightseeing, Arts &amp; Culture, Cultural Heritage, Outdoor hiking and
enjoying nature, cruising the bay or departing for longer cruises, LGBTQ activities, spectator and other
sports, etc. are just some of the things to keep you busy when not at the conference.
Check out the [Visit Seattle website](https://visitseattle.org/) and read below 
for ideas and help in planning your Seattle adventures.

Realizing the COVID pandemic is of concern to everyone, here is the latest update about Seattle: As of
March 1, 2022, there is no longer a vaccine verification health order. And as of March 12, 2022,
Washington and King County will discontinue current mask mandates. Seattle was the first major
American city to fully vaccinate 70% of residents 12 and older. King County is now at a vaccination rate
of 88% and is safely welcoming back visitors. Many large corporations and businesses are beginning to
bring their workforce back to downtown, which will continue to enhance the visitor’s experience.

Note that you may need to apply for a U.S. visa to enter the country. Please refer to [this page](/visa-info/) for more information.

## Conference Venue

Both as the conference headquarters hotel and the conference venue, the [**Hyatt Regency Seattle**](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears) will be
your home-away-from-home at:

> 808 Howell Street<br>
> Seattle, Washington<br>
> United States<br>
> 98101<br>
> +1 206 973 1234<br>

Our downtown hotel is walking distance to Seattle’s most iconic attractions &amp; experiences. Venture
farther &amp; immerse yourself in the Pacific Northwest’s incredible landscapes. You can find more about
the area attractions [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears/area-attractions).

## Welcome Reception

A Welcome Reception will be held on **Sunday, July 10** from 6:00pm to 8:00pm. Join us at the
conference venue where you can meet and make new friends and catch up with your colleagues. Light
food and refreshments will be served.

## Social Event

The NAACL 2022 Social Event will be held on **Tuesday, July 12** from 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm at the
Museum of Pop Culture (MoPOP). Housed in a building designed by architect Frank Gehry, this
museum features rotating exhibits dedicated to all things pop culture, including film, music, comic
books, and more. MoPOP’s permanent collection features more than 80,000 objects. While we add
objects to this online catalog over the coming years until the entire collection is accessible digitally,

MoPOP curators have selected iconic objects from across genres and time periods, in order to highlight
the breadth of MoPOP’s permanent collection. Visit [here](https://www.mopop.org/collection/highlights/) to learn more about MoPOP.

The Museum of Pop Culture (formerly EMP Museum) is located at 325 5th Avenue N at Seattle Center.

One entrance ticket will be included with your in-person registration. Please note that we need to plan
ahead so it is important to let us know on the registration form whether or not you plan to attend the
social event.

<img src="../../assets/images/mopop1.jpeg" alt="MoPop1" width="30%">
<img src="../../assets/images/mopop2.jpeg" alt="MoPop2" width="30%">
<img src="../../assets/images/mopop3.jpeg" alt="MoPop3" width="30%">

## Meals

A light Breakfast will be provided daily and can be found on levels 3 & 5 pre-function.

Breaks --- Tea, coffee, pastries and snacks will be provided early morning, mid-morning and mid-afternoon and will be found in the Regency Ballroom on level 7 (on Sunday the location will be level 3 pre-function).

Lunch is not provided, but there are plenty of cafes, restaurants and shops near by within walking distance as well as the hotel has a grab and go market open until 14:00.

Dinner will only be provided during the Welcome Reception on Sunday evening (starting at 18:30) located on Level 5 pre-function and Tuesday evening at the social event at MoPop.

## Accommodation

We have secured accommodation for participants at NAACL-HLT 2022 discounted rates at the Hyatt Regency Seattle 
which is also the conference venue. You can make your discounted reservation [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/group-booking/SEARS/G-ACLL).

- Walk two blocks southwest to the Westlake Station, where you can board the Link Light Rail and ride it to the airport, University of Washington, and more. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport is just 15 miles away. 
- Overnight self-parking for hotel guests; In & Out privileges included. $40/day 
- Complimentary Wi-fi in all guest rooms. 
- Single/Double Room: **$265**, Triple Room: **$300**, Quad Room: **$325**.
 
Quoted rates will be possible up to 3 days pre- and post-conference, based on hotel availability. ACL discounted rates are available through Sunday, June 19, 2022. Reservation requests received after the cut-off date will be based on standard room type availability at the contracted group rate.

## Accessibility

The conference and the hotel are committed to providing equal access and opportunity for individuals with disabilities. You may find a list of accessibility provisions [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears#all-accessibilities-panel) (please search for "HOTEL ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES" and click on the "VIEW FEATURES" button).

In addition, the hotel does not operate a shuttle from the airport, but the Light Rail connects to the Westlake station near the hotel; you can read more about Light Rail accessibility [here](https://www.soundtransit.org/ride-with-us/know-before-you-go/transit-accessibility/ada-complementary-paratransit-service). The hotel has accessible parking in the building itself. The hotel is wheelchair-accessible through the main entrance, the elevators are accessible (auditory/visual feedback/wheelchair height controls, etc.), and bathrooms have accessible stalls that accommodate large electric wheelchairs. There is consistent braille labeling throughout the building. The hotel has gender-inclusive restrooms, lactation rooms, and quiet rooms. The hotel staff has had disability awareness training. Furthermore, all conference events will have automatic or live captioning. The area where the conference will take place is obstacle-free. Service animals are permitted in the hotel.

If you would like to request any accommodations (e.g. sign language interpreter, mobility assistance, pregnancy needs, etc.), please complete [this form](https://forms.office.com/r/Cqd0NgHzDM) as soon as possible.

## Attractions in Seattle

Below are some of our recommended Native businesses in Seattle:

**Stores and Exhibitions**

* [The Duwamish Longhouse & Cultural Center](https://www.duwamishtribe.org/store)
* [Eighth Generation](https://eighthgeneration.com/)
* [Chief Seattle Club's Native Works](https://nativeworkscsc.org/)
* [Sacred Circle Gallery](https://www.unitedindians.org/arts-culture/sacred-circle-gallery/)

**Tours**

* [Salish Sea Tours](https://www.salishseatours.com/) as featured in [this news article](https://www.thenewstribune.com/news/state/washington/article252380503.html)
* [Indigenous Walking Tour of the University of Washington campus](https://www.washington.edu/news/2021/09/22/get-to-know-the-uw-campus-with-indigenous-walking-tour/)


Below are some of our recommended queer-friendly neighborhoods, attractions, and businesses in and near Seattle, Washington.

**Neighborhoods**

* [Capitol Hill](https://visitseattle.org/neighborhoods/capitol-hill/) is a vibrant queer neighborhood with tons of bars, clubs, food, and nightlife, as well as other queer-owned and queer-friendly businesses.

**Bookstores**

* [Left Bank Books](https://leftbankbooks.com/)
  * "anti-authoritarian, anarchist, independent, radical and small-press titles"
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility information](https://leftbankbooks.com/aboutUs.php#access)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Left+Bank+Books+Collective)
* [The Elliot Bay Book Company](https://www.elliottbaybook.com/)
  * "full service bookstore, home to over 150,000 titles, set on cedar shelves in a multi-level, inviting unique atmosphere"
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: wheelchair-accessible elevator to get to entrance, wheelchair-accessible elevator to access 2nd floor
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=The+Elliott+Bay+Book+Company)

**Museums**

* [Museum of Museums](https://www.museumofmuseums.com/)
  * "Housed in a renovated mid-century medical building, MoM hosts two formal exhibition spaces, three additional on-site museums, rotating installations, murals and sculpture, a theater, weekly art classes, pop-ups, and conceptual gift shop. Nearly every inch of the property is art-activated."
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility](https://www.museumofmuseums.com/about/#block-yui_3_17_2_1_1620851565476_11590)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Museum+of+Museums)
* [Frye Art Museum](https://fryemuseum.org/)
  * "Reflecting Seattle's evolving identity through exhibitions, programs, and community engagement, the Frye Art Museum showcases local and global artists who are exploring the issues of our time as well as contemporary scholarship on historical subject matter. By taking calculated risks, we uncover new voices, facilitate conversation, and provide a forum for relevant social dialogues."
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility](https://fryemuseum.org/accessibility_at_the_frye/)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Frye+Art+Museum)

**Cafés**
* [Distant Worlds Coffeehouse](https://www.distantworldscoffee.com/)
  * "In the heart of the Roosevelt neighborhood, Distant Worlds serves as meeting place and gathering grounds for [queer, trans, and BIPOC safe geeks] of all stripes.  Our community is fueled by coffee or tea, our selection of house made pastries, our vegetarian and vegan sandwiches, WiFi, and each other."
  * queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: store is sublevel but has a ramp that allows for wheelchair access, tables are spread apart for wheelchair accessibility, sublevel parking structure and lots of street parking 
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Distant+Worlds+Coffeehouse)
* [Tea Republik](https://tearepublik.square.site/)
  *  serve signature selections of loose leaf teas
  *  not queer-owned
  *  queer-friendly
  *  accessibility: ramp leading into store and wheelchair-accessible, only street parking
  *  [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Tea+Republik)

**Other Places**
* [Outsider Comics and Geek Boutique](http://www.outsidercomics.com/)
  * "physical space located in the Seattle neighborhood of Fremont that brings together a community of individuals (women, minorities, LGBTQ groups) who identify with geek culture, but have traditionally been underserved by comic shops"
  * queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: ramp leading into store and wheelchair-accessible, parking spots out front and street parking
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Outsider+Comics+and+Geek+Boutique)

Below are some venues that highlight underrepresented members of the Seattle community and minority voices:

* [Northwest African American Museum](https://www.naamnw.org/) A driving force in keeping the Seattle Black community visible, through events oriented around the celebration of Black leaders that have influenced the region throughout history, and programs/exhibits that highlight local Black voices.
* [L.E.M.S. Bookstore](https://sites.google.com/keytechlabs.org/lemsbookstore/home) The longest-running Black owned bookstore in Seattle, which highlights Black stories and authors, as well as providing a community space.

Commit message:

Updated talk inclusivity blog post with suggestions and venue page to reflect quiet, prayer, and childcare rooms

_pages/venue.md, after:

---
title: Venue
layout: single
permalink: /venue/
sidebar:
    nav: "participants"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

NAACL 2022 will be a **hybrid** event with both on-site (Seattle, Washington) and virtual participation (via Underline).

## About Seattle

Seattle welcomes millions of visitors from around the world so many of you may already be familiar
with all that Seattle has to offer. Sightseeing, Arts &amp; Culture, Cultural Heritage, Outdoor hiking and
enjoying nature, cruising the bay or departing for longer cruises, LGBTQ activities, spectator and other
sports, etc. are just some of the things to keep you busy when not at the conference.
Check out the [Visit Seattle website](https://visitseattle.org/) and read below 
for ideas and help in planning your Seattle adventures.

Realizing the COVID pandemic is of concern to everyone, here is the latest update about Seattle: As of
March 1, 2022, there is no longer a vaccine verification health order. And as of March 12, 2022,
Washington and King County will discontinue current mask mandates. Seattle was the first major
American city to fully vaccinate 70% of residents 12 and older. King County is now at a vaccination rate
of 88% and is safely welcoming back visitors. Many large corporations and businesses are beginning to
bring their workforce back to downtown, which will continue to enhance the visitor’s experience.

Note that you may need to apply for a U.S. visa to enter the country. Please refer to [this page](/visa-info/) for more information.

## Conference Venue

Both as the conference headquarters hotel and the conference venue, the [**Hyatt Regency Seattle**](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears) will be
your home-away-from-home at:

> 808 Howell Street<br>
> Seattle, Washington<br>
> United States<br>
> 98101<br>
> +1 206 973 1234<br>

Our downtown hotel is walking distance to Seattle’s most iconic attractions &amp; experiences. Venture
farther &amp; immerse yourself in the Pacific Northwest’s incredible landscapes. You can find more about
the area attractions [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears/area-attractions).

## Welcome Reception

A Welcome Reception will be held on **Sunday, July 10** from 6:00pm to 8:00pm. Join us at the
conference venue where you can meet and make new friends and catch up with your colleagues. Light
food and refreshments will be served.

## Social Event

The NAACL 2022 Social Event will be held on **Tuesday, July 12** from 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm at the
Museum of Pop Culture (MoPOP). Housed in a building designed by architect Frank Gehry, this
museum features rotating exhibits dedicated to all things pop culture, including film, music, comic
books, and more. MoPOP’s permanent collection features more than 80,000 objects. While we add
objects to this online catalog over the coming years until the entire collection is accessible digitally,

MoPOP curators have selected iconic objects from across genres and time periods, in order to highlight
the breadth of MoPOP’s permanent collection. Visit [here](https://www.mopop.org/collection/highlights/) to learn more about MoPOP.

The Museum of Pop Culture (formerly EMP Museum) is located at 325 5th Avenue N at Seattle Center.

One entrance ticket will be included with your in-person registration. Please note that we need to plan
ahead so it is important to let us know on the registration form whether or not you plan to attend the
social event.

<img src="../../assets/images/mopop1.jpeg" alt="MoPop1" width="30%">
<img src="../../assets/images/mopop2.jpeg" alt="MoPop2" width="30%">
<img src="../../assets/images/mopop3.jpeg" alt="MoPop3" width="30%">

## Meals

A light Breakfast will be provided daily and can be found on levels 3 & 5 pre-function.

Breaks --- Tea, coffee, pastries and snacks will be provided early morning, mid-morning and mid-afternoon and will be found in the Regency Ballroom on level 7 (on Sunday the location will be level 3 pre-function).

Lunch is not provided, but there are plenty of cafes, restaurants and shops near by within walking distance as well as the hotel has a grab and go market open until 14:00.

Dinner will only be provided during the Welcome Reception on Sunday evening (starting at 18:30) located on Level 5 pre-function and Tuesday evening at the social event at MoPop.

## Accommodation

We have secured accommodation for participants at NAACL-HLT 2022 discounted rates at the Hyatt Regency Seattle 
which is also the conference venue. You can make your discounted reservation [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/group-booking/SEARS/G-ACLL).

- Walk two blocks southwest to the Westlake Station, where you can board the Link Light Rail and ride it to the airport, University of Washington, and more. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport is just 15 miles away. 
- Overnight self-parking for hotel guests; In & Out privileges included. $40/day 
- Complimentary Wi-fi in all guest rooms. 
- Single/Double Room: **$265**, Triple Room: **$300**, Quad Room: **$325**.
 
Quoted rates will be possible up to 3 days pre- and post-conference, based on hotel availability. ACL discounted rates are available through Sunday, June 19, 2022. Reservation requests received after the cut-off date will be based on standard room type availability at the contracted group rate.

## Accessibility

The conference and the hotel are committed to providing equal access and opportunity for individuals with disabilities. You may find a list of accessibility provisions [here](https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/washington/hyatt-regency-seattle/sears#all-accessibilities-panel) (please search for "HOTEL ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES" and click on the "VIEW FEATURES" button).

In addition, the hotel does not operate a shuttle from the airport, but the Light Rail connects to the Westlake station near the hotel; you can read more about Light Rail accessibility [here](https://www.soundtransit.org/ride-with-us/know-before-you-go/transit-accessibility/ada-complementary-paratransit-service). The hotel has accessible parking in the building itself. The hotel is wheelchair-accessible through the main entrance, the elevators are accessible (auditory/visual feedback/wheelchair height controls, etc.), and bathrooms have accessible stalls that accommodate large electric wheelchairs. There is consistent braille labeling throughout the building. The hotel has gender-inclusive restrooms, prayer rooms, childcare & lactation rooms, and quiet rooms:

Quiet Room:	703 Hok
Prayer Room:	704 Newaukum
Childcare #1:	305 Chelais
Childcare #2 (Nursing Station):	304 Calawah

While using these rooms, please do not cause any disturbances and be respectful of other conference attendees' space and needs. The hotel staff has had disability awareness training. Furthermore, all conference events will have automatic or live captioning. The area where the conference will take place is obstacle-free. Service animals are permitted in the hotel.

If you would like to request any accommodations (e.g. sign language interpreter, mobility assistance, pregnancy needs, etc.), please complete [this form](https://forms.office.com/r/Cqd0NgHzDM) as soon as possible.

## Attractions in Seattle

Below are some of our recommended Native businesses in Seattle:

**Stores and Exhibitions**

* [The Duwamish Longhouse & Cultural Center](https://www.duwamishtribe.org/store)
* [Eighth Generation](https://eighthgeneration.com/)
* [Chief Seattle Club's Native Works](https://nativeworkscsc.org/)
* [Sacred Circle Gallery](https://www.unitedindians.org/arts-culture/sacred-circle-gallery/)

**Tours**

* [Salish Sea Tours](https://www.salishseatours.com/) as featured in [this news article](https://www.thenewstribune.com/news/state/washington/article252380503.html)
* [Indigenous Walking Tour of the University of Washington campus](https://www.washington.edu/news/2021/09/22/get-to-know-the-uw-campus-with-indigenous-walking-tour/)


Below are some of our recommended queer-friendly neighborhoods, attractions, and businesses in and near Seattle, Washington.

**Neighborhoods**

* [Capitol Hill](https://visitseattle.org/neighborhoods/capitol-hill/) is a vibrant queer neighborhood with tons of bars, clubs, food, and nightlife, as well as other queer-owned and queer-friendly businesses.

**Bookstores**

* [Left Bank Books](https://leftbankbooks.com/)
  * "anti-authoritarian, anarchist, independent, radical and small-press titles"
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility information](https://leftbankbooks.com/aboutUs.php#access)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Left+Bank+Books+Collective)
* [The Elliot Bay Book Company](https://www.elliottbaybook.com/)
  * "full service bookstore, home to over 150,000 titles, set on cedar shelves in a multi-level, inviting unique atmosphere"
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: wheelchair-accessible elevator to get to entrance, wheelchair-accessible elevator to access 2nd floor
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=The+Elliott+Bay+Book+Company)

**Museums**

* [Museum of Museums](https://www.museumofmuseums.com/)
  * "Housed in a renovated mid-century medical building, MoM hosts two formal exhibition spaces, three additional on-site museums, rotating installations, murals and sculpture, a theater, weekly art classes, pop-ups, and conceptual gift shop. Nearly every inch of the property is art-activated."
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility](https://www.museumofmuseums.com/about/#block-yui_3_17_2_1_1620851565476_11590)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Museum+of+Museums)
* [Frye Art Museum](https://fryemuseum.org/)
  * "Reflecting Seattle's evolving identity through exhibitions, programs, and community engagement, the Frye Art Museum showcases local and global artists who are exploring the issues of our time as well as contemporary scholarship on historical subject matter. By taking calculated risks, we uncover new voices, facilitate conversation, and provide a forum for relevant social dialogues."
  * not queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * [accessibility](https://fryemuseum.org/accessibility_at_the_frye/)
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Frye+Art+Museum)

**Cafés**
* [Distant Worlds Coffeehouse](https://www.distantworldscoffee.com/)
  * "In the heart of the Roosevelt neighborhood, Distant Worlds serves as meeting place and gathering grounds for [queer, trans, and BIPOC safe geeks] of all stripes.  Our community is fueled by coffee or tea, our selection of house made pastries, our vegetarian and vegan sandwiches, WiFi, and each other."
  * queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: store is sublevel but has a ramp that allows for wheelchair access, tables are spread apart for wheelchair accessibility, sublevel parking structure and lots of street parking 
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Distant+Worlds+Coffeehouse)
* [Tea Republik](https://tearepublik.square.site/)
  *  serve signature selections of loose leaf teas
  *  not queer-owned
  *  queer-friendly
  *  accessibility: ramp leading into store and wheelchair-accessible, only street parking
  *  [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Tea+Republik)

**Other Places**
* [Outsider Comics and Geek Boutique](http://www.outsidercomics.com/)
  * "physical space located in the Seattle neighborhood of Fremont that brings together a community of individuals (women, minorities, LGBTQ groups) who identify with geek culture, but have traditionally been underserved by comic shops"
  * queer-owned
  * queer-friendly
  * accessibility: ramp leading into store and wheelchair-accessible, parking spots out front and street parking
  * [directions](https://www.google.com/maps?saddr=My+Location&daddr=Outsider+Comics+and+Geek+Boutique)

Below are some venues that highlight underrepresented members of the Seattle community and minority voices:

* [Northwest African American Museum](https://www.naamnw.org/) A driving force in keeping the Seattle Black community visible, through events oriented around the celebration of Black leaders that have influenced the region throughout history, and programs/exhibits that highlight local Black voices.
* [L.E.M.S. Bookstore](https://sites.google.com/keytechlabs.org/lemsbookstore/home) The longest-running Black owned bookstore in Seattle, which highlights Black stories and authors, as well as providing a community space.
